Well, you brothers and sisters from the 155th class of Gilead are not only about to graduate but will soon be heading toward your
assignments, which we know you'll enjoy. But life, being what it is, you know,
problems occasionally arise. And one problem you might personally encounter somewhere down the road is
difficulty understanding and adjustment to an organizational or
theocratic arrangement. It could be a change in our preaching methods, or in congregation
operations, or in branch procedures, or something like that. Now normally we appreciate these
organizational refinements in harmony with Isaiah 67 and yet our publications and even the
Bible itself acknowledged that at some point any one of us might find it hard to make
that transition from the way we had been doing something to the way we're now instructed
to do it. Now why would we find it difficult? Because it affects us personally. It changes
where we serve or what we do. Maybe that. Maybe not that. Maybe it's just that mentally
we're finding it hard to grasp the sense behind the change. Well, we're loyal. We're
going to cooperate, but our brain keeps saying, why are we going in this direction? It seems
to me we should be going in that direction instead. Well, if we have been given new direction,
and mentally we're strongly inclined otherwise, then we have a problem, but we also have a solution.
And that's at Philippians chapter 3. Can we go there? Now here Paul discusses a problem
that existed back there in some congregations. Now was it a big problem in Philippi apparently
not, but anticipating that it might be a problem for some individuals there. Paul addresses
it right here in Philippians chapter 3 verse 15 and 16. It says, therefore let those of
us who are mature, be of this mental attitude. And if you are mentally inclined otherwise
in any respect, God will reveal the above attitude to you at any rate to the extent with
made progress. Let us go on walking orderly in this same course. What is Paul talking
about? A major organizational adjustment, the shift from the Mosaic law to Christianity.
And Paul for one understood it. He was not mentally inclined otherwise. He left behind
his attachment to the law. Any personal advantages that it was bringing him may be along the lines
of prominence prestige among the Jews, left it all behind. That was Paul. But it took
some Jewish Christians years to grow to the point where they could leave that law behind
and fully adopt all aspects of Christianity. Why did it take them so long? Now it's easy
for us to say, well, they were stubborn. They had a bad attitude. And some of them
did. There were some, for example, who wanted to hold on to parts of the law just to avoid
persecution. So you had things like that going on. But think also of this. Prior to Christianity,
the Mosaic law was Jehovah's arrangement for worship. So there must have been some Jewish
worshipers who before becoming Christian were very loyal to the Mosaic law. And being
of the loyal sort, what do you think they did? Just obey the law? No, they'd have taken
it further. They'd have worked hard to cultivate a strong appreciation for the law, a deep
love for the way different features of the law reflected Jehovah's personality, his ways,
his thinking. Perhaps some invested years bringing their appreciation up to that high level
and now that they had the law suddenly goes out of effect, you can appreciate why it might
have been hard for some loyal ones to process this change mentally. Could something like
that happen today? Yes, it could. Maybe you're taught years ago. This is how we preach
and this is why. Or this is how the congregation handles certain situations and this is why.
Or this is how we view certain branch procedures and this is why it is the very best way. Now,
being of the loyal sort, what did you do? You made it all your own, not just the arrangement
itself, but the reasoning behind the arrangement. If somebody came along and challenged it,
you loyally defended it. And maybe it took you years to bring your appreciation up to that high
level, but loyally you did. And now that you did, the arrangement changes. And maybe even the
reasoning behind the arrangements. Well, like some of those early Jewish Christians, your very
loyalty to a previous theocratic arrangement might make it hard to grasp immediately the wisdom
behind the new adjustment. Well, like we said, that's the problem. What's the solution? What can
we actually do about it? Three things. And all three are right there in the verses we just read.
First, be patient. What do Paul say there in verse 15? Therefore, let those of us who are
mature be of this mental attitude and if you're mentally inclined otherwise, God will reveal the above
attitude to you. So if you've made an earnest endeavor, a prayerful endeavor to get the sense
behind a change. And for now, you just can't set it aside. Be patient because the day will come.
Maybe sooner, but maybe later when the pieces finally fall into place for you and you grasp the
wisdom behind the adjustment. Now number two, walk orderly. What does that mean? The study note for
verse 16 explains that walking orderly has to do with moving forward unitedly as Christians.
So in the context of what we're talking about right now, walking orderly means support the new
arrangement without resisting, without complaining. Because what does complaining and resisting do? It's
it's walking disorderly. It's promoting disunity. So no, we walk orderly. We support the arrangement.
Now number three, stay busy in your theocratic routine because there in verse 16, Paul encourages
all of the Philippians to keep making progress. Now the same is true of all of us. Certainly,
there are many aspects of the truth that we do appreciate. We do understand and we're making
progress. Good. Put your mind and heart there, right? Rather than continuing to obsess over something
that you just can't understand for now, stay busy on your assignment and stay absorbed in your
weekly spiritual routine. It brings immediate contentment. Let's reveal. If we ever have a problem
understanding and adjustment to a theocratic arrangement, we also have a solution.
Philippians 316, be patient, walk orderly, and stay busy in our theocratic routine.
Now I would like to conclude by illustrating that last point, the value of staying busy in our
theocratic routine. Because it is the solution, not just to what we're talking about right now,
it is the solution to several situations in life. Now the illustration is one that I heard several
years ago at a Gillian graduation program. One of your instructors told us about the old steamboats
that used coal for fuel, right? So upstairs you had the captain in the crew, downstairs you have
these men busy shoveling coal into the ship's boiler, right? Now imagine one of these workers puts
his shovel down and he approaches a coworker and says, hey, did I just detect the ship
starting to make a left turn? That does not seem right to me. Seems that at this point of the trip,
we should be moving straight forward, not changing direction. I wonder if the captain really knows
what he's doing. You know what? I'm going to go upstairs and have a word with the captain. Now at
this point the speaker stopped describing the scene. He just leaned forward close to the microphone
and he simply said, shovel the coal. Oh, that's you and me, right? That's you and me. We are shoveling
the coal. We're busy doing the work, Jehovah assigned us to do. That's what we're absorbed in.
We let Jehovah take care of Isaiah 60, 17, the copper, the gold, the silver. We take care of the coal
by staying absorbed and busy in our theocratic routine. And then as Jehovah navigates his
organization, he'll also navigate us to the right attitude, to contentment and to that most
wonderful adjustment of all from this system to life in the new world.